# Exploring the Impact of Neighborhood Islamic Points of Interest on Islamophobia: An Exploratory Study Using OpenStreetMap and Google Maps

## Background

This repository is set up to showcase the analytical strategy undertaken for our article "Exploring the Impact of Neighborhood Islamic Points of Interest on Islamophobia: An Exploratory Study Using OpenStreetMap and Google Maps". Please note that analyses were undertaken using R. 

## Data Availability

The georeferenced survey data from Belgian National Election Study 2020 (BNES) that support the findings of this study are available on request from the authors. The data are not publicly available due to restrictions associated with sensitive geoinformation that could compromise the (geo)privacy of respondents. Raw OSM and Google Maps on Islamic Points of Interest files are only available upon request. Religious locations are considered sensitive information, so restricting public distribution helps prevent misuse or targeting. Here, the files are only available at the aggregated level. Raw census data recorded at the statistical sector were generated by Statbel, the Belgian statistical office. Pre-processed census supporting the findings of this study are available from the authors on request.

## Script Description

The code used to support this analysis is organized into three scripts. The first script is **1_Extracting_Islamic_POI_for_Belgium_OSM_GoogleMaps_prep.R**. It is provided to demonstrate the workflow behind extracting Islamic POI for Belgium from OpenStreetMap, the geocoding workflow of Islamic POI addresses from Google Maps, and initial geodata wrangling. The second script is **2_Extracting_Islamic_POI_for_Statistical_Sectors_prep.R**. It shows how to overlay geodata on Islamic POI over the polygons of Belgian statistical sectors. The third script is **3_Exploring_the_Impact_of_Neighborhood_Islamic_Points_of_Interest_on_Islamophobia_GitHub.R**. It is provided to demonstrate the workflow behind the main analyses. The file serves as a guiding script, containing the exact steps undertaken for data preprocessing, feature engineering, data preparation for analysis, OLS analysis, and elastic net ML workflow. The script is supported by the exact printouts of the OLS regression results (see **Islamophobia_OLS_printout.RData**, **Islamophobia_Moderation_OLS_printout.RData**, **Islamophobia_Results_printout.html**) and ML-based elastic net results (see **Islamophobia_Elastic_Net_printout.RData**, **Islamophobia_Moderation_Elastic_Net_printout.RData**). 
